Before we start using Spark,
let's discuss how it fits into the greater Big Data environment.
If you want to learn Big Data technologies and you do a quick search,
you'll find dozens of different tools.
It's hard to know where to start since there's practically a jungle of technologies.
Like a jungle, these different tools form a complex ecosystem,
each of them playing a different role in exchanging and
manipulating data using their unique strengths.
These diverse technologies work together and in some cases,
compete to process and enrich data throughout its life-cycle.
While every part of this ecosystem is important,
there's one technology that plays an out-sized role.
Spark is central to the Big Data ecosystem
and is the first tool you should learn if you want to work with Big Data.
In this sense, Spark is the king of the Big Data jungle.
In this lesson, we'll explore this ecosystem
by explaining what we mean when we say Big Data.
We'll go over how this environment developed and discuss how
Spark evolved as the leading framework for dealing with data at scale.
We'll also discuss some of the cooperating technologies
that you use alongside Spark, like stream processing and databases.
Finally, we'll discuss some of the competing tools and the data food chain
and walk through their pros and cons, as compared to Spark